## Reflection

While working on this research paper, I gained a more thorough understanding of how artificial intelligence will affect future careers in software engineering. Before beginning the assignment, I knew that AI was rapidly becoming a ubiquitous part of software engineering; I did not grasp, however, the full extent of the professional transformation it would bring. After researching various academic articles and studies, I found that AI is not necessarily eliminating software engineers from their field of work. Rather, AI is revolutionizing the way software engineers practice their profession, in addition to placing new expectations on both current and future professionals in this career field.

A particular finding of interest was how AI is impacting junior software engineers. I realized that basic programming duties are easily automatized by utilizing new AI technologies. It becomes difficult for the new graduate, who is working to build fundamental programming and problem-solving skills as well as learn to leverage new AI tools. Concurrently, I was fascinated to discover that the value of senior engineers still remains quite high. These senior engineers offer the guidance, management, and technical expertise that the AI will be able to supply only in part.

Another lesson learned from this research is the continued importance of human attributes. While AI has the ability to generate code and eliminate monotonous tasks from an engineer’s job description, artificial intelligence will not have the ability to mimic an engineer’s critical thinking, creative intuition, communication skills, ability to cooperate with others, or ethical reasoning. Such abilities will likely remain essential in software engineering careers, and the importance of human attributes could possibly grow even larger in significance with advancement in artificial intelligence technology.

This research project has affected my own views about future career prospects. Rather than be afraid of artificial intelligence, I now recognize that it is a very useful and potentially powerful tool for increasing productivity and supporting software development, when it is applied appropriately. In an effort to prepare myself for the future, I believe it is essential to continue gaining more technical knowledge and also work on developing strong problem-solving, analytical, and communication skills. Developing effective collaboration techniques when working with AI technologies will likely soon be a key trait of successful software engineers.

In conclusion, this assignment proved to be very beneficial in understanding future software engineering jobs and that the job profession is changing but not disappearing and those engineers who continue to be adaptable and enthusiastic about lifelong learning will succeed in the growing AI era.